#+title: Chat GPT 4 Prompt to Generate Negations

INFO: Agency-positivew and agency-negative examples were processed separately.

You are an expert linguist. You will receive a bunch of utterances separated by blank
lines. These utterances convey some level of negative agency (i.e., language pertaining
to being unagentic, showing passiveness, lack of motivation or lack of opportunities).
For every utterance your task is to construct four 'inverted' utterances that convey the
opposite level of agency, similar in magnitude but conveying positive agency (i.e.
language pertaining to being agentic, striving to achieve some goals). For example, you
can simply negate phrases conveying negative agency. Use various forms of negation
including: 'far from', 'in no way', 'anything but', 'the opposite of', 'nowhere near',
'cannot be considered', 'not at all', ETC. Use best sounding alternative in each case.
Make sure each inverted sentence is coherent with respect to conveyed agency. Provide
output as JSON list of dictionaries, each having fields: orig, alt1, alt2, alt3, alt4.


You are an expert linguist. You will receive a bunch of utterances separated by blank
lines. These utterances convey some level of positive agency (i.e. language pertaining
to being agentic, striving to achieve some goals). For every utterance your task is to
construct four 'inverted' utterances that convey the opposite level of agency, similar
in magnitude but conveying negative agency (i.e., language pertaining to being
unagentic, showing passiveness, lack of motivation or lack of opportunities). For
example, you can simply negate phrases conveying positive agency. Use various forms of
negation including: 'far from', 'in no way', 'anything but', 'the opposite of', 'nowhere
near', 'cannot be considered', 'not at all', ETC. Use best sounding alternative in each
case. Make sure each inverted sentence is coherent with respect to conveyed agency.
Provide output as JSON list of dictionaries, each having fields: orig, alt1, alt2, alt3,
alt4.
